# webnet
	A social media network built using plugins, addons, and widgets distributed around the internet. Please help. I have next to no idea what I'm doing.

	Throughout the past year, I've seen a number of issues with how we, as citizens of the internet, acquire and consume media coming to a head. Discussion of important issues has changed from happening entirely in meat-space to happening primarily through social media online. This in itself is not a bad thing. More people are talking to people they would have never even met before because of social media. But lets be honest here. As series of tubes go, the internet has become a septic system.
	When it comes to political discussion, there's authoritarians and fascists everywhere, all the news is fake news except for the stuff we already believe, Russia may or may not be subverting the United State's democracy, Google, Amazon and Facebook all know everything about us, and everyone is either too outraged about all the evil morons who disagree with them or are too scared of all the outraged people to actually have a calm discussion with everybody about any of these problems.
	And despite all of this I somehow have cobbled together some ideas from all over the internet into something maybe possible that I hope will help fix this mess.

	These are the problems I hope to fix with this project:

	We need to be able to talk to each other in public forums. Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and the rest are not public forums. They are private forums that basically everybody can access. These sound very similar but they are not the same. With a public forum, you won't be forced to leave unless you are actually breaking the law. With a private forum, if the owner wants you gone for basically any reason, you are gone.
 	Individuals do not own their data. Sure they'll give you all the data you've given them or even get rid of it if you ask. But it's still their data, on their servers, until the moment you ask them to get rid of it. They can do basically whatever they want with it until then. Usually this involves using it to sell your attention to relevant ads, or figuring out what to show you next to keep you on the site longer. So they can sell more ads.
	Media companies and by extension the media producers are beholden to their advertisers. So speaking of ads... “We live in a corporate autocracy.” is a little hyperbolic but is basically true. As citizens of the internet, the utilities we generally use are all provided by independent companies. Companies which we have little to no control over, and which get basically all their money from advertisers. So when youtubers raise a stink about the site layout or the algorithm or whatever nothing happens, but if the advertisers on YouTube make a stink: boom, Adpocalypse.
	That last one is the big one because I think that's one of the more major factors resulting in the outrage culture that's been gaining ground in every corner of the internet. At the end of the day, outrage gets people to watch. It gets people to comment. Most importantly, It gets people to click on related content. which means they also see more ads.
  
	This is how I hope to fix these problems with this project:

	The basic idea is to let individuals be their own publishers, and just to connect them. The reason why we've given so much power to the Tweetbook and the Snapstigram is because they have always claimed that they were merely social platforms, not publishers. The platforms are legally in no way responsible for the statements made by their users. They are merely providing a public service.
	So how about we show them how to actually do what it is they are claiming to do. Anybody can make a website and they can post whatever they want on that website. If all you want to do is help people find the stuff other people have made you don't need a massive website with all the bells and whistles.
	What I'm thinking is a decentralized network of personal websites, each showing a user's profile, content, and comments, as well as links to whatever content they want to share from others, all connected through some kind of widget they add to their page when they make it. Messaging and replies could be handled by Firefox and chrome addons scraping sites in the network for comment threads. I'm not too set on the actual implementation, but I'm pretty sure this is at least theoretically possible.
	If this works, discussion could only be moderated by the people having the discussion making the whole of the network into a public forum, users would always be in control their data because all their data is being stored on their own website, and the media creators would have direct control over how they choose to monetize their work. If they decide to use Patreon or what have you to fund themselves, great! If they decide to sell space on their site to advertisers, at least they might have a less impersonal relationship with the advertiser who supports them.  
  
